admin_manual/installation/example_openbsd.rst, before:

.. _openbsd_installation_label:

Example installation on OpenBSD
===============================

.. warning::

    Nextcloud does not have official OpenBSD or other BSDs support

In this install tutorial we will be deploying Nextcloud on a minimal OpenBSD with our own httpd(8), PHP, PostgreSQL and redis (for -stable or -current are the same steps).

From a base installed OpenBSD system you can just do::

    # pkg_add nextcloud
    
The extra packages::

    # pkg_add postgresql-server redis pecl74-redis php-pdo_pgsql 


This will take care of your dependencies and give you the options to choose which PHP version do you want.

HTTPD(8)
--------

Create a virtualhost in ``/etc/httpd.conf`` and add the following content to it::

    server "domain.tld" {
        listen on egress tls port 443
        hsts max-age 15768000

	  tls {
		    certificate "/etc/ssl/domain.tld_fullchain.pem"
		    key "/etc/ssl/private/domain.tld_private.pem"
	  }

	  # Set max upload size to 513M (in bytes)
	  connection max request body 537919488
	  connection max requests 1000
	  connection request timeout 3600
	  connection timeout 3600

	  block drop

	  # Ensure that no '*.php*' files can be fetched from these directories
	  location "/nextcloud/config/*" {
		  block drop
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/data/*" {
		  block drop
	  }

	  # Note that this matches "*.php*" anywhere in the request path.
	  location "/nextcloud/*.php*" {
		  root "/nextcloud"
		  request strip 1
		  fastcgi socket "/run/php-fpm.sock"
		  pass
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/apps/*" {
		  root "/nextcloud"
		  request strip 1
		  pass
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/core/*" {
		  root "/nextcloud"
		  request strip 1
		  pass
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud" {
		  block return 301 "$DOCUMENT_URI/index.php"
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/" {
		  block return 301 "$DOCUMENT_URI/index.php"
	  }

	  location "/.well-known/carddav" {
		  block return 301 "https://$SERVER_NAME/nextcloud/remote.php/dav"
	  }

	  location "/.well-known/caldav" {
		  block return 301 "https://$SERVER_NAME/nextcloud/remote.php/dav"
	  }

	  location "/.well-known/webfinger" {
		  block return 301 "https://$SERVER_NAME/nextcloud/public.php?service=webfinger"
	  }

	  location match "/nextcloud/ocs-provider/*" {
		  directory index index.php
		  pass
	  }
  }


Make sure that httpd(8) is enabled and started::

    # rcctl enable httpd
    # rcctl start httpd

PHP
---

Assuming that you are on OpenBSD -current (or >= 6.8-stable) you could use PHP 7.4 so I will keep this version, but the concept is the same for other version.

The PHP packages will be available since you installed Nextcloud with pkg_add, so you just need to adjust a bit your php.ini.

It is recommended to add opcache to it::

  [opcache]
  opcache.enable=1
  opcache.memory_consumption=512
  opcache.interned_strings_buffer=8
  opcache.max_accelerated_files=10000
  opcache.revalidate_freq=1
  opcache.save_comments=1
  

And increase some limits::

  post_max_size = 513M
  upload_max_filesize = 513M
  
   
We can enable the PHP modules with::

    # cd /etc/php-7.4.sample
    # for i in *; do ln -sf ../php-7.4.sample/$i ../php-7.4/; done
    
And then we just enable and start PHP::

    # rcctl enable php74_fpm
    # rcctl start php74_fpm


Database
--------

As mentioned, we will be using PostgreSQL as our database, and we already installed it, now we need to initialised::
    
    $ su - _postgresql
    $ mkdir /var/postgresql/data
    $ initdb -D /var/postgresql/data -U postgres -A md5 -E UTF8 -W
    ...
    Enter new superuser password: PASSWORD
    Enter it again: PASSWORD
    ...
    Success. You can now start the database server using:

    pg_ctl -D /var/postgresql/data -l logfile start

    $ pg_ctl -D /var/postgresql/data -l logfile start
    server starting
    $ exit


We need to check, enable and start postgres::

    # rcctl check postgresql
    # rcctl enable postgresql
    # rcctl start postgresql
    
You can follow the README on ``/usr/local/share/doc/pkg-readmes/postgresql-server`` to create users and permission.


Redis
-----

We installed redis before, we need to enable it and start it and also add it to the Nextcloud conf::

    # rcctl enable redis
    # rcctl start redis
    # mg /var/www/nextcloud/config/config.php
    ...
      'memcache.local' => '\OC\Memcache\Redis',
      'redis' => array(
      'host' => 'localhost',
      'port' => 6379,
      'timeout' => 0.0,
    ),
    ...
    

Cron job
--------

We need to add the Nextcloud cron job to get some tasks done by adding this entry on your cronjob::

  */5 * * * * /usr/bin/ftp -Vo - https://domain.tld/cron.php >/dev/null
  
Chroot
------

Since in OpenBSD httpd(8) works with a chroot(8) by default, we need to be sure that we have the relevant files into the /var/www jail::

  # mkdir -p /var/www/etc/ssl
  # install -m 444 -o root -g bin /etc/ssl/cert.pem /etc/ssl/openssl.cnf \
          /var/www/etc/ssl/
  # cp /etc/resolv.conf /var/www/etc
  

Nextcloud final steps
---------------------

Now that we have all in place, you should go to your browser with your URL (I am assuming you have an SSL already installed)::

  https://domain.tld
  
Now you just need to follow the steps and put in place your DB name, usr and passwords.

Keep in mind that the upgrades for Nextcloud you can do it by running on -current::

  # pkg_add -u -Dsnap
  
And on -stable::

  # pkg_add -u

Then you just follow the steps from your browser.



NOTE
----

Remember always to read all the READMES from the OpenBSD packages on::

  /usr/local/share/doc/pkg-readmes/
  
All this information and more is available for you there.

Commit message:

OpenBSD documentation should include instruction for web wizard

admin_manual/installation/example_openbsd.rst, after:

.. _openbsd_installation_label:

Example installation on OpenBSD
===============================

.. warning::

    Nextcloud does not have official OpenBSD or other BSDs support

In this install tutorial we will be deploying Nextcloud on a minimal OpenBSD with our own httpd(8), PHP, PostgreSQL and redis (for -stable or -current are the same steps).

From a base installed OpenBSD system you can just do::

    # pkg_add nextcloud
    
The extra packages::

    # pkg_add postgresql-server redis pecl74-redis php-pdo_pgsql 


This will take care of your dependencies and give you the options to choose which PHP version do you want.

HTTPD(8)
--------

Create a virtualhost in ``/etc/httpd.conf`` and add the following content to it::

    server "domain.tld" {
        listen on egress tls port 443
        hsts max-age 15768000

	  tls {
		    certificate "/etc/ssl/domain.tld_fullchain.pem"
		    key "/etc/ssl/private/domain.tld_private.pem"
	  }

	  # Set max upload size to 513M (in bytes)
	  connection max request body 537919488
	  connection max requests 1000
	  connection request timeout 3600
	  connection timeout 3600

	  block drop

	  # Ensure that no '*.php*' files can be fetched from these directories
	  location "/nextcloud/config/*" {
		  block drop
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/data/*" {
		  block drop
	  }

	  # Note that this matches "*.php*" anywhere in the request path.
	  location "/nextcloud/*.php*" {
		  root "/nextcloud"
		  request strip 1
		  fastcgi socket "/run/php-fpm.sock"
		  pass
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/apps/*" {
		  root "/nextcloud"
		  request strip 1
		  pass
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/core/*" {
		  root "/nextcloud"
		  request strip 1
		  pass
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud" {
		  block return 301 "$DOCUMENT_URI/index.php"
	  }

	  location "/nextcloud/" {
		  block return 301 "$DOCUMENT_URI/index.php"
	  }

	  location "/.well-known/carddav" {
		  block return 301 "https://$SERVER_NAME/nextcloud/remote.php/dav"
	  }

	  location "/.well-known/caldav" {
		  block return 301 "https://$SERVER_NAME/nextcloud/remote.php/dav"
	  }

	  location "/.well-known/webfinger" {
		  block return 301 "https://$SERVER_NAME/nextcloud/public.php?service=webfinger"
	  }

	  location match "/nextcloud/ocs-provider/*" {
		  directory index index.php
		  pass
	  }
  }


Make sure that httpd(8) is enabled and started::

    # rcctl enable httpd
    # rcctl start httpd

PHP
---

Assuming that you are on OpenBSD -current (or >= 6.8-stable) you could use PHP 7.4 so I will keep this version, but the concept is the same for other version.

The PHP packages will be available since you installed Nextcloud with pkg_add, so you just need to adjust a bit your php.ini.

It is recommended to add opcache to it::

  [opcache]
  opcache.enable=1
  opcache.memory_consumption=512
  opcache.interned_strings_buffer=8
  opcache.max_accelerated_files=10000
  opcache.revalidate_freq=1
  opcache.save_comments=1
  

And increase some limits::

  post_max_size = 513M
  upload_max_filesize = 513M
  
   
We can enable the PHP modules with::

    # cd /etc/php-7.4.sample
    # for i in *; do ln -sf ../php-7.4.sample/$i ../php-7.4/; done
    
And then we just enable and start PHP::

    # rcctl enable php74_fpm
    # rcctl start php74_fpm


Database
--------

As mentioned, we will be using PostgreSQL as our database, and we already installed it, now we need to initialised::
    
    $ su - _postgresql
    $ mkdir /var/postgresql/data
    $ initdb -D /var/postgresql/data -U postgres -A md5 -E UTF8 -W
    ...
    Enter new superuser password: PASSWORD
    Enter it again: PASSWORD
    ...
    Success. You can now start the database server using:

    pg_ctl -D /var/postgresql/data -l logfile start

    $ pg_ctl -D /var/postgresql/data -l logfile start
    server starting
    $ exit


We need to check, enable and start postgres::

    # rcctl check postgresql
    # rcctl enable postgresql
    # rcctl start postgresql
    
You can follow the README on ``/usr/local/share/doc/pkg-readmes/postgresql-server`` to create users and permission.


Redis
-----

We installed redis before, we need to enable it and start it and also add it to the Nextcloud conf::

    # rcctl enable redis
    # rcctl start redis
    # mg /var/www/nextcloud/config/config.php
    ...
      'memcache.local' => '\OC\Memcache\Redis',
      'redis' => array(
      'host' => 'localhost',
      'port' => 6379,
      'timeout' => 0.0,
    ),
    ...
    

Cron job
--------

We need to add the Nextcloud cron job to get some tasks done by adding this entry on your cronjob::

  */5 * * * * /usr/bin/ftp -Vo - https://domain.tld/cron.php >/dev/null
  
Chroot
------

Since in OpenBSD httpd(8) works with a chroot(8) by default, we need to be sure that we have the relevant files into the /var/www jail::

  # mkdir -p /var/www/etc/ssl
  # install -m 444 -o root -g bin /etc/ssl/cert.pem /etc/ssl/openssl.cnf \
          /var/www/etc/ssl/
  # cp /etc/resolv.conf /var/www/etc
  

Nextcloud final steps
---------------------

The remaining installation step are completed in the web-based installation wizard.

To activate this wizard, create a file named CAN_INSTALL inside the installation's config folder:

  # touch /var/www/nextcloud/config/CAN_INSTALL

Use your browser to navigate to the installation's URL:

  https://domain.tld
  
Now you just need to follow the steps and put in place your DB name, usr and passwords.

Keep in mind that the upgrades for Nextcloud you can do it by running on -current::

  # pkg_add -u -Dsnap
  
And on -stable::

  # pkg_add -u

Then you just follow the steps from your browser.



NOTE
----

Remember always to read all the READMES from the OpenBSD packages on::

  /usr/local/share/doc/pkg-readmes/
  
All this information and more is available for you there.
